a bonus yen irony of ironies it seems
like the whole book falls into exactly
the trap it's trying to avoid and it
just idiosyncratically picks and chooses
the things that the offer author finds
gratifying or amusing to talk about and
treats them as effective activism with
absolutely no empirical basis without
even rigorously arguing it without even
looking at an honest and open minded way
at the type of anecdotal evidence we all
have it is unbelievable to me how
unsophisticated this argument is in its
use of the data if you can even call
that data that's the only thing I can
praise here is when he's saying other
people's approaches are not scientific
and then the bizarre thing is this book
proceeds to offer you an approach that
is itself totally unscientific as you
mentioned one more thing I should
degress his experience as a clinical
clinical psychologist is also incredibly
biased because the people he's talking
to are either paying money to receive
his advice on how to change their lives
as a clinical or they're stuck in his
office because a court order a judge or
some kind of police authority forced
them to sit in his office and listen to
his advice that is totally different
from the type of situation we're in as
vegans trying to motivate people to take
an interest in doing the right thing for
the right reason and become vegan ah
that new CN this is yet another video
apologizing for not presenting a book
review this is a non book review or no
it's a book non review that's what it is
so you guys know I've been forcing
myself to read a doctor Casey Taft's
book motivational methods for vegan
advocacy and I mean you know this book
is just a waste of your time it is just
a waste of your time the only part of
the book I can praise is where he is in
just a few pages attacking the
methodology of some of the other groups
that make pseudo scientific claims these
are
within the social sciences but that make
seemingly scientific claims about what
is and what is not effective advocacy
now i think i'm going to make another
video about that dealing especially with
the animal charity evaluate errs so
let's see if I can just get the name of
that charity right yes I did get a right
AC e animal charity evaluate errs and
other groups making pseudo scientific
claims about the effectiveness of
different forms of activism and so
that's that's the only thing I can
praise here is when he's saying other
people's approaches are not scientific
and then the bizarre thing is this book
proceeds to offer you an approach that
is itself totally unscientific now I
made a comment on Twitter the other day
I'm new to Twitter I said look a lot of
these claims about what is effective
activism are inherently absurd because
when it comes right down to it we're
talking about propaganda and propaganda
is a form of art effective activism is
effective art now why did I say that I'm
insinuating that there are limits to
what we can approach in a metrical
scientific way to some extent we're
going to have to embrace the richness
and diversity of human experience and
the ineluctably unscientific reality of
the fact that one work of art you know
moves an audience emotionally and
another doesn't whether you're talking
about cinema or painting or performance
art or stand-up comedy it is peculiar I
mean it's all so peculiar sometimes you
have a work of art and at the time its
first made it doesn't find an audience
it doesn't resonate with nights and then
decades later for some reason it gets
rediscovered you know when it goes from
being unknown to being famous the arts
are full of these kinds of
contradictions and I do think propaganda
is an art I do have a background in
social sciences I do think the social
sciences have some important lessons for
us to consider in veganism but I mean
this is bizarre Casey Taft's approach
it's just a series of these
self-selected incredibly biased
anecdotes that only fav
his own argument I'll just give an
example this isn't very 109 he just says
even the most offensive non-vegan who is
in the pre contemplation stage of change
has the potential to someday go vegan I
have heard many vegans tell me that they
once used to troll vegan Facebook pages
making hateful comments about loving the
taste of animals and yet they ended up
going vegan so you know okay again this
is not brilliantly written the argument
really just is it consists of a long
series of totally disorganized
self-selected antecdotes like that one
time I had this conversation on the
internet and one time I talked to for
somebody on facebook or via email once I
talked to this guy and like it is
unbelievable to me how unsophisticated
this argument is in its use of the data
if you can even call that data I've
worked as an editor of nonfiction
academic nonfiction especially and you
know many people with PhDs they think
about writing a report in a way that's
completely abstracted from the audience
no thought whatsoever has gone into how
this book would be useful for the person
reading it I say as as an editor when I
was given a manuscript of a book very
often written by some with a PhD most of
my projects were I would often have to
confront the author and say look here
near the start of the book you got 30
pages that are totally worthless to the
audience for this book to the reader for
this book and sometimes that would get
offended to get angry and fight over to
something but they had never thought who
is going to read this book who is this
for how is this book going to be useful
this person and among other obvious
implications of just thinking that way
think about the audience reading for is
not providing information they already
know right like who is going to read
this the title is motivational methods
for vegan advocacy a clinical psychology
perspective so only people who are
already really experienced with these
exactly these types of [ __ ] anecdote
experiences nobody
is going to read this book who is at
such a level of June ignorance they
would be blown away by these animals
like wow really you once talked to a guy
on facebook who said he used to be a
troll and that was me Wow let's go me
more like none of this is going to be
new or surprising to the very small
audience of people like myself who would
read it and then what's done with with
that data and the various kind of
ethical and normative claims here it's
it's both it's not to me the problem is
not that it's pseudoscience I've already
explained I think in some ways what
we're talking about here is much more
art than science this just cannot be
useful so I already have another video
that's already up on YouTube where talk
about the peculiar role of social
justice as a concept in case etfs
approach to this i believe i believe the
title that video is simply veganism is
not a social justice movement um it's a
very poorly written book it fails both
in living up to its own scientific
pretensions and it fails to be useful in
a more broadly heuristic education or
artistic sense now do I think that the
challenge for motivational methods
indiana visit do i think that the
challenge for motivational methods in
vegan advocacy do i think that is a
purely artistic challenge no I think
there were actually a lot of lessons we
can take from the social sciences and
Social Science methodology I said this
really briefly in my last conversation
with mod vegan I said look you know I
know what it's like to do real outcome
evaluation in the social sciences we
have a baseline and a midline and Ed
line you know I I know how those methods
are used I know how outcomes are
measured you know you they have all this
pretentious language in that field you
design the instruments and carry out the
field work and do the study and so on um
at a minimum with no budget just us
having a conversation here on YouTube or
via Skype I think there's really like a
philosophical sense in which we have a
lot to learn
about effective activism from social
science research methods can we actually
use those methods to improve what we're
doing here and now and veganism in 2017
I think the simple answer is no because
nobody has the budget and also nobody
nobody is going to be intellectually
honest about what those findings are and
nobody has the the rigor or the even the
motivation to use those findings in in a
meaningful way now Casey Taft himself
gives me a great example of this early
on in the first couple chapters sorry if
ribs chapter 10 chapter 2 quite early on
in the book Casey dismisses most of the
social science research that's gone into
effective activism so far by saying that
it is completely worthless to ask meat
eaters what would or would not be
effective vegan activism for the same
reason he claims that it would be
useless to ask racists to ask people who
may be for example neo-nazis uh what
would be effective in educating them to
you know be more accepting of blacks or
Jews or whoever it is they're the racist
against now to me that is just
mind-blowing Lee self-evidently wrong
and makes me think that Casey Taft even
though he has this background in
clinical psychology had absolutely no
understanding of what this kind of
social science research is or why it
would matter for veganism the exact
opposite of that statement is true it's
incredibly important and incredibly
worthwhile for example to go into
prisons and talk to white people who are
members of neo-nazi gangs and talk to
them but why they're racist and how they
first joined the game what their motives
are what their worldview is it is
actually this is I mean the exact
opposite is what he's saying is how
social science research works it's so
important to reach out to and try to
understand those people and understand
the contradictions they have in their
lives like most of those guys tell you
about people
who identify as as racists they do at
the same time have cooperative
relationships with black people and
Portuguese people at their workplace and
then yet they go home and they're racist
so you can talk to them about how they
live how they balance this ideology with
the reality of you know some of them I
know it sounds ridiculous some of them
literally do have non white friends and
yet they're racist and it's crucially
important interview people who are going
through the stages of them some people
say deprogramming you know of exiting
maybe a cult-like racist group and then
to interview them afterwards to do you
know baseline midline edline study and
talk to them about what was effective
for them this is the absolute
bread-and-butter this is the basic you
know this you know you can you claim
that you care about social science
research and having a rigorous
scientific approach understanding what
is what is it affecting being accuracy
and yet the most basic kind of broadly
philosophical concepts we could take
from the social sciences veganism are
dismissed right in right in chapter one
so that is bizarre to me that is surreal
and throughout the whole book again I
think it's partly just the Casey Taft is
a is a bad author you know he just
states things really in a religious
fashion as if he's in a position to
declare self-evident truths with no
empirical basis and no examination and
no argumentation of self doubt he'll
just say something like well at the
cognition stage the most important
element of veganism to argue is the
ethical argument because he just makes
these claims about how you should
present veganism in terms of ethics
rather than other factors disregarding
even the few scientific studies that are
talking about here the probably the only
scientific finding we have right now by
the way about what is effective in in
people remaining vegan very interest is
the sense of revulsion the sense of
disgust that people who cultivate an
aversion to that they
find me revolting stay vegan and uh many
who don't feel that way go back to
eating dead obvious that's the kind of
thing you learned through social science
research is that Ashley feelings of a
version and discussed that meat is gross
and so on there and dairy and eggs and
someone that's actually an important
part of people becoming and remaining
vegan which maybe is not flattering to
you ideological maybe you prefer to
think it's a purely ethical case or
purely political decision or something
but it's not so that kind of thing can
can show up in social science research
um like you know again so there's
there's art and science and stand up
comedy here I talk for ethics for hours
and hours on my channel but I would be
the first person to admit and all due
humility some people have zero interest
in the ethical arguments just on a
case-by-case basis just
idiosyncratically and it'll never matter
and on the other hand being brutally
honest and even insulting with some
people especially I've got to say with
with heterosexual men can off to have a
really lasting impression on them as you
mentioned one more thing I should
degress his experience as a clinical
clinical psychologist is also incredibly
biased because the people he's talking
to are either paying money to receive
his advice on how to change their lives
as a'kla or they're stuck in his office
because a court order a judge or some
kind of police authority forced them to
sit in his office and listen to his
advice that is totally different from
the type of situation we're in as vegans
trying to motivate people to take an
interest in doing the right thing for
the right reason and become vegan right
if someone paid me in the role of a
therapist to coach them becoming vegan
totally different scenario if somebody
is forced to sit in my office and be
counseled by me because the judge
sentenced them to do so many hours of
counseling with with a therapist that's
totally different and he is completely
utterly biased by this experience these
professional experience as going to go
therapist it doesn't realize how utterly
in applicable most of this stuff is
irony of ironies it seems like the whole
book falls into exactly the trap
it's trying to avoid and it just
idiosyncratically picks and chooses the
things that the author finds gratifying
or amusing to talk about and treats them
as effective activism with absolutely no
empirical basis without even rigorously
arguing it without even looking at an
honest and open minded way at the type
of anecdotal evidence we all have before
my digression I was just saying look I
like to talk about ethics I like to talk
about politics I don't even want to
guess what percentage of my fellow human
beings want to hear those arguments
least of all in relation to veganism my
experience on planet earth whether it's
in Laos or Cambodia or Canada very few
people are sincerely interested in
having a lecture on ethics under any
circumstances least of all really should
because very few people are really
interested in politics it's a very loud
minority because people talk about
politics get on TV every night but it's
really if you're being honest to
yourself it's it's a minority and if
you're not in a context where someone's
either paying money for a therapist or
being forced to talk to a therapist by a
judge you start to even if it's just an
anecdotal way see that you know in
accordance with the great diversity of
human personality types all kinds of
different methods turn out to be
effective even if they are in a
theoretical sense meth largely wrong
there's a lot of material here on how to
be a good listener which I think
honestly I think is it absolutely zero
used anyone who would you know read this
book like how you're supposed to sit
down as he does in his office of the
therapist and make the person feel
validated and listen to and heard and
all this [ __ ] you know even if it's
wrong all of us if your experience is a
vegan you know examples for your own
life where you may be said something
rude and contemptuous and dismissive to
someone but it struck home and the
honesty of it stayed with them and
inspired them to become vegan or at
least inspire them to become reduced
tarian I especially in my interactions
with heterosexual men I've often pointed
out for one thing a lot of heterosexual
men like it when you don't [ __ ] them
and
if we're being all the way on us this is
pretty much a guide to how to [ __ ]
people so they often just respond to the
honesty even if it's a little bit brusk
or a little bit insulting and you know
the same way that you know a coach may
motivate people in a sport not by saying
this is going to be easy you're going to
be so good at it you can motivate people
also by talking about how hard something
is going to be right like you don't have
to come into this saying oh but veganism
is so rewarding and it's so easy and you
can do it and everyone else finds it
easy you can say yeah you know what it's
hard it's hard emotionally it's hard
practically yeah it's gonna [ __ ] up your
lunch schedule it's gonna [ __ ] up you
know every time you go on a date with a
woman yeah it's a burden yeah it's hard
but guess what it's the right thing to
do and what are you too weak or too
stupid or too lazy or too cowardly to do
the right thing you can have those kinds
everybody's think if given that this is
just working from a mess of anecdotes
and it's picking and choosing those
anecdotes in this kind of dishonest way
my opinion you know the head dotes don't
favor this kind of methodology at all
because again anecdotally you can't have
the experience many of you will have had
it repeatedly you just say to somebody
contemptuously when they tell you that
oh they think veganism is morally
correct but they could never do it
themselves because it's inconvenient or
for some specific reason you know you
may say something pretty contemptuous
like well you know what a thousand years
ago the world seemed to be full of men
who were willing to stand up and fight
and die over a point of moral principle
and these days it seems like everyone is
so lazy and so self-indulgent that it's
too much to ask from the stand up and do
the right thing because it's the right
thing to do and you might say something
even more insulting you might say to
them yeah well I guess you're just a
coward I guess you're not willing you
know to take this incredibly tiny risk
of trying to be vegan because you know
it's the right thing to do I guess
you're in various words you may let them
know that you perceive them as lazy and
immoral
a bad person and so that's breaking
every rule in this book and yet that
same person may come back to you months
later and say wow you know what you said
really stuck with me and now I really
try to be vegan maybe they're not vegan
maybe the become reduce of teryan but
maybe they become vegan too I've had
those kinds of interactions on the
internet I've had them face-to-face with
people I've had so many situations where
i was talking this person and i thought
they were just wasting my time and I was
being quite brusk and insulting and then
I heard back from the months later that
they did become vegan now am I going to
build a methodology out of that no I
mean this is like what are you gonna do
what do the social science methods tell
us about stand-up comedy you know what
kind of social science methods tell us
even I mean look I have a background in
academic religious studies maybe there's
more that we can learn from you know how
religions are preached how people
convert and D convert from religious
beliefs I don't know probably a lot of
the social sciences have different rules
to teach us but i guess the fundamental
delusion that each of these academic
authors brings the game is they tried to
argue that the social sciences have one
lesson for all of veganism for all vegan
activism and advocacy and you know we
have to we have to support their
conclusions and look all this stuff
comes down to cultural and linguistic
factors also i already think this book
is a piece of [ __ ] if you're living in
can to the united states do you think
even Casey Taft himself would have the
delusion that you could take his
conclusions and apply them to Japan
apply them to Taiwan apply them to
Scotland let's call I've lived in
Scotland it's significative an even
France even Germany cultures where meat
and meat eating are so different and you
know in saying that already now you
realize just how anecdotal and just how
incoherent the daddy you're working from
is so what do you think within the
United States do you really think it's
going to be the same in New York City as
it is in Texas do you really think it's
going to be the same for talking to
white white
wealthy people as opposed to maybe you
know poor or middle class Hispanic
people like so again as as thin as the
pretense of scientism is in this kind of
study then when you bring in those
cultural factors you know it gets it
gets so so thin as to be observed I can
tell you in kc textbook i think the
basic problem is that he just did not
put any thought whatsoever into who his
audience was who would actually read the
book and what would be useful for them
to know and I do think it lacks the
incredibly high level of honesty and
rigor and humility that it would take to
really reflect on you know the
incoherent and anecdotal reality of what
does convert people to being vegan and
then try to take steps forward in
drawing up some kind of you know
conclusions or lessons from that as I
said on Twitter you know part of the
puzzle here is simply that propaganda is
an art form so when we are talking about
effective advocacy we are talking about
effective art and that is almost a
paradox almost a contradiction in terms
I banos yen